Update content for Topics core concept page (#839)
novuhq/docs: content/docs/platform/concepts/topics.mdx

---
title: 'Topics'
description: 'Learn how topics work in Novu and how they help you organize and target groups of subscribers efficiently.'
---
import { Accordion, Accordions } from 'fumadocs-ui/components/accordion';

> In Novu, a topic is a way to group subscribers under a shared label so you can broadcast a message to many users with a single workflow trigger. This fan-out mechanism removes the need to manage individual subscriber IDs for each notification, streamlining scenarios like product announcements, feature rollouts, or status updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Novu, a _topic_ is a way to group subscribers under a shared label so that you can broadcast a message to many users with a single workflow trigger. This fan-out mechanism removes the need to manage individual subscriber IDs for each notification, streamlining scenarios like product announcements, feature rollouts, or status updates.
```

## Topics identifiers

Each topic is uniquely identified by a topic key, a permanent, internal reference in your system. You can also assign a name to help describe its purpose (for example, "Task Updates" or "Comment Thread Subscribers"). The topic key must be unique and cannot be changed after creation; Novu enforces this uniqueness behind the scenes.

Common use cases:
- Notifying all members of a specific team or project
- Messaging users who commented on a post
- Updating subscribers to a specific product or feature

## How topics fit into Novu's model

Novu’s notification system is built around workflows, which are triggered for one or more recipients. Topics act as a special type of recipient, representing a group of subscribers instead of an individual.

When you trigger a workflow using a topic:

> - The to field accepts the Topic’s key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The to field accepts the topic’s key.
```

> - Novu looks up all subscribers assigned to the topic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Novu looks up all subscribers assigned to the topic.
```

> - A separate workflow event is created for each subscriber (for delivery and billing)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A separate workflow event is created for each subscriber for delivery and billing.
```

> Topics let's you target large groups with a single API call, no need to loop through subscribers or send multiple workflow triggers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Topics let you target large groups with a single API call, no need to loop through subscribers or send multiple workflow triggers.
```

<Callout>Topics don’t replace individual targeting. You can still trigger workflows for specific subscribers or arrays of subscribers when needed.</Callout>

## Dynamic and decoupled grouping

> Once a topic is created, you can assign or remove subscribers at any time. Subscribers don’t need to know they belong to a Topic, it doesn’t affect their personal notification preferences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a topic is created, you can assign or remove subscribers at any time. Subscribers don’t need to know they belong to a topic, and it doesn’t affect their personal notification preferences.
```

Topics are dynamic and reflect real-time states. For example, a topic might include:

> - All users watching a post (who can be removed if they unfollow)

Reviewer: Way too many parenthetical statements in this page. Please remove them.

> - All users watching a post (who can be removed if they unfollow)

Reviewer 2: Way too many parenthetical statements in this page. Please remove them.

- All team members on a project (who can change over time)

This makes topics especially useful for modeling dynamic relationships in your application.

## Scalability and limits

Topics are designed for high-volume, high-efficiency use cases:
- Each topic supports up to 100,000 subscribers
- A separate workflow event is created for each subscriber when a workflow is triggered to the topic

This ensures accurate delivery and billing while supporting massive audiences.

## Autogenerated topics

> Novu supports on-the-fly topic creation. If you add subscribers to a non-existent topic, Novu will automatically create it using the given key. The topic will be named as the topic key, and can be renamed or managed later like any other topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Novu supports on-the-fly topic creation. If you add subscribers to a non-existent topic, then Novu automatically creates it using the given key. The topic will be named as the topic key and can be renamed or managed later like any other topic.
```

Reviewer: I do not understand "The topic will be named as the topic key". Do you mean that the topic is created with the key as the name?

> Novu supports on-the-fly topic creation. If you add subscribers to a non-existent topic, Novu will automatically create it using the given key. The topic will be named as the topic key, and can be renamed or managed later like any other topic.

Reviewer 2: I do not understand "The topic will be named as the topic key". Do you mean that the topic is created with the key as the name?

Author: Yes, fixed

## Explore the topics API

For implementation details and usage examples, visit the [Topics API reference](/api-reference/topics/topics/get).

## Frequently asked questions

<Accordions>
  <Accordion title="Do topics override subscriber preferences?">
    No. Topics only define delivery groups. Each subscriber’s individual notification preferences remain intact.
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="Is a topic like a mailing list?">
  Conceptually, yes. Topics group users to receive shared messages. However, topics are more dynamic and integrated into your application logic.
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="Can a subscriber belong to multiple topics?">
  Yes. Subscribers can be members of any number of topics. This allows overlapping targeting strategies (for example, `task-updates`, `project-X`, and `admin-notifications`).
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="Can I reuse the same topic key across environments?">
  Topic keys must be unique within each environment. You can reuse the same key (for example, `feature-release`) in different environments like staging and production.
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="What happens if I trigger a workflow to a topic with no subscribers?">

>   The workflow will still be processed, but no notifications will be delivered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The workflow are processed, but no notifications are delivered.
```
